= FlickrMocks

Wiki[http://wiki.github.com/takaltoo/flickrmocks] | RDocs[http://rdoc.info/projects/takaltoo/flickrmocks]

FlickrMocks simplifies access to the Flickr API by providing wrappers and helpers on top of
the FlickRaw[https://github.com/hanklords/flickraw] gem.

== Installation
In a standalone ruby project:
    gem install flickrmocks

    # in your code
    require 'flickrmocks

In <b>Rails 3</b>, add this to your Gemfile.

    gem "flickrmocks"

In <b>Rails 2</b>, add this to your environment.rb file.

    config.gem "flickrmocks"

Alternatively, you can install it as a plugin.

    rails plugin install git://github.com/takaltoo/flickrmocks.git

== Getting Started
FlickrMocks API helpers expect the FlickRaw.api_key to be initialized before they are called:
    FlickRaw.api_key = your_flickr_api_key

In Rails you can automate the initialization by creating the initializer file
config/initializers/flickraw_config.rb with the content:

    FlickRaw.api_key = your_flickr_api_key[http://www.flickr.com/services/api/misc.api_keys.html]

Alternatively, your flickr api key can be placed into a separate
YAML[http://railscasts.com/episodes/85-yaml-configuration-file] configuration file.
In this scenario the contents of the config/initializers/flickrwa_config.rb would be something like:

    FlickRaw.api_key = APP_CONFIG['flickr_api_key']

Your config/config.yml could look something similar to this (Note: you can use
this file to place all your custom configurations):

    development:
      flickr_api_key: xyz
    test:
      flickr_api_key: xyz
    production:
      flickr_api_key: xyz

== Using the search API
FlickrMocks::Api.photo(options_hash), returns object of class FlickrMocks::Photo.
The options accepted include:
    - :photo_id => "id for photo"
    - :secret => "secret for photo"
FlickrMocks::Api.photo_details(options_hash), returns object of class FlickrMocks::PhotoDetails.
The options accepted include:
    - :photo_id => "id for photo"
    - :secret => "secret for photo"
FlickrMocks::Api.photos(options_hash), returns object of class FlickrMocks::PhotoSearch.
The options accepted include:
    - :search_terms => 'search terms' # comma separated list of search terms 'happy cow, pasture'
    - :owner_id => 'id for owner of photo' # either :owner_id or :search_terms must be specified
    - :tag_mode => 'all' # optional argument, can be either all or any
    - :per_page =>  '50' # optional argument, can be any number greater than 0
    - :page =>  '1' # optional argument, can be any number greater than 0
    - :base_url => 'url' # optional argument
FlickrMocks::Api.photo_sizes(options_hash), returns object of class FlickrMocks::PhotoSizes.
The options accepted include:
    - :photo_id => "id for photo"
    - :secret => "secret for photo" # optional argument
FlickrMocks::Api.interesting_photos(options_hash), returns object of class FlickrMocks::PhotoSearch.
The options accepted include:
    - :date => '2010-10-10' # date of format YYYY-MM-DD
    - :per_page => 'number' # optional argument
    - :page =>  'number' # optional argument
FlickrMocks::Api.commons_institutions(options_hash), returns object of class FlickrMocks::CommonsInstitutions.
The options accepted include:
    - :per_page => 'number' # optional argument
    - :current_page => 'number' # optional argument

== Stubs for testing
FlickrMocks provides Rspec 2.0 stubs for the search API routines. To stub all the routines simply call:

    FlickrMocks::Stubs::Api.all

By calling FlickrMocks::Stubs::Api.all the following methods will be stubbed. 
     FlickrMocks::Api.photo
     FlickrMocks::Api.photos
     FlickrMocks::Api.photo_details
     FlickrMocks::Api.photo_sizes
     FlickrMocks::Api.interesting_photos
     FlickrMocks::Api.commons_institutions

NOTE: the stubs return errors when not called with proper options. Moreover, some of the stubs return
different objects depending on how they are called. For additional details please
refer RDocs[http://rdoc.info/projects/takaltoo/flickrmocks].

== Additional Docs

* {RDOCs}[http://rdoc.info/projects/takaltoo/flickrmocks]
* {See more}[http://wiki.github.com/takaltoo/flickrmocks/]

		
== Questions or Problems?

If you have any issues with FlickrMocks which you cannot find the solution to in the documentation,
please add an {issue on GitHub}[http://github.com/takaltoo/flickrmocks/issues] or fork the project and send a pull request.

To get the specs running you should call +bundle+ and then +rake+.


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== License

FlickrMocks is released under the MIT license.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Takaltoo
